now carefully arranging your used towels
isn't the best thing to do in a hotel
you're just not helping
the general rule is dump them somewhere
like the bathroom floor or in the
bathtub
then the staff can see that they need to
change the towels
if you keep them all nice and folded the
staff may just get it wrong
and leave them as they are thinking that
they're still fresh
you're on a low budget trip and you
brought along some appliances
so you can cook right there in the hotel
not a big deal
but if there's only one outlet and you
want to boil some eggs in your electric
kettle
maybe don't first you never know what
capacity the outlet has
it might even set off the hotel's fire
alarm just
stick to sandwiches or something of
course you can boil water for some ramen
noodles
but if you feel like a slice of fresh
crusty toast
never try to make it with an iron sounds
crazy
but some people have even tried heating
up their frozen pizza with a hair dryer
what happened they ended up having to go
look for another hotel
and an actual restaurant always look for
hotels
that include breakfast it's usually way
more expensive to have breakfast at a
nearby restaurant
plus you most likely wouldn't know where
to go
much better to hit the hotel's breakfast
buffet coffee
cheese ham toasted fruit if you play
your cards right
you'd be too full for lunch
sometimes your hotel room's way bigger
than you expected
if there are two beds but you're
traveling alone maybe don't use
both of them that'll just add a bunch of
unnecessary work for the hotel staff
even though room service includes
cleaning it's polite to do some basic
tidying up yourself before you leave
pick up any paper lying around
wipe up that coffee you spilled on the
floor don't make the bed though
the staff's going to replace the sheets
no matter what plus
if you make the bed right after you get
up you're just actually creating a
lovely dark environment for tiny dust
mites
yeah bugs might be a real issue even the
best hotels with the best staff
can be powerless against those little
guys put your luggage in the bathtub
first it's the cleanest place in the
room
then check the place over for bugs if
you don't see any
start unpacking so no bugs
but what about mold the most common way
for mold to get into a hotel room
is if you chuck your wet towel on the
bed and go out for the day
you might get back to an interesting
smelling room
if you're going to be traveling a lot
and plan on using the same hotel chain
more than once
don't try to trick the hotel into
thinking you never drank that soda from
the mini bar
yeah a can of soda might cost you double
what you'd pay at the gas station
but you don't want to get put on the
hotel's naughty list
this one sounds hilarious but still no
one should ever be boiling their socks
or any other item of clothing in the
kettle that comes in the hotel room
some hotel managers claim to have seen
it happen
just send your clothes off to the
hotel's cleaning service people
if you love sleeping on a thick pillow
ask the front desk for an extra one
don't even think about moving that
cushion from the couch
chances are it's never really been
washed
saying thank you is always polite but a
nice tip
would go down even better it's not that
polite to leave your room surface tip on
the last day of your stay
different people might have been
cleaning your room so only tipping the
last ones
kind of unfair if you decide to leave
your tip on the very last day
leave a note along with it to make sure
they share it with their co-workers
you can also tip the parking valets when
you drop off and pick up your car
and in general don't be shy you can tip
a door person
a porter those small tips can add up and
they'll be really grateful
for any extra cash taking
reusable items from your hotel room as a
souvenir is a big no-no
though it's okay to grab those shampoos
conditioners
lotions soap combs sewing kits that
stuff can save you an emergency
leave those towels glasses and dishes
behind for the next guest
if your room has the bathrobe of your
dreams
you can always go to the front desk and
ask if you can buy one
if you try to take one with you without
asking for permission chances are
your credit card is going to be charged
for it later
by the way don't dry hotel towels out on
the balcony
if you end up saying goodbye to one of
them just because the wind took it away
or was it some shady neighbor you'll be
the one who's going to pay for it
they're just plain white towels but they
can be pretty pricey
don't be too shy to call down to the
front desk and ask for a late checkup
it's probably not a big deal for the
hotel but it might make all the
difference to you
hotels know you might be more likely to
choose them again
or leave a nice tip if they give you a
few extra hours in your room
if they say no well at least you tried
one thing you can do to help the staff
out when you leave
is to air out your room that small step
is one of the most time consuming things
they have to do and they have to clean
the rooms
really fast just leave the windows open
to freshen the room up a bit
if it's really hot outside you can even
leave the air conditioning on
just don't do both at the same time
leave the tv remote on the desk any
cutlery on the table
and all the chairs back in their places
it'll save housekeeping a lot of time
they're already in a huge rush imagine
cleaning hundreds of rooms
every single day accidents can happen
anywhere and it's okay if you
accidentally drop a glass and it breaks
but don't try to get away with it give
the front desk a call
they probably won't even charge you for
such a minor accident
plus management might think the
housekeeping staff broke it
and they might make them pay for a
replacement
never turn down a chance to join your
hotel's reward program
it's usually free and you can get it
after your first day
if you travel a lot try to choose those
big chain hotels that give you bonuses
every
time you book you could get bumped up to
a suite get better wi-fi
a free gym pass or even a free night
beware of steamy showers if you
accidentally release all that water
vapor into your room at the same
time you might trigger the hotel's fire
alarm
they keep those things extra sensitive
just to be on the safe side
so make sure you keep the door shut next
time you steam up the place
if you're traveling with a pet let the
hotel know about it beforehand
pet policies can differ from one hotel
to another
and if you have a more unusual pet
better double double check
it might be a pet friendly hotel but you
probably can't show up with your
pet pee cup if they say no they'll
usually be able to tell you about
another hotel nearby
trying to hide your little furry friend
isn't the best idea
dogs can be super noisy so can cats
soaking pecans
you're going to be looking at a hefty
fine if they catch you
booking etiquette is a bit different now
than it used to be
you used to have to confirm your stay at
some hotels by writing them a letter
nowadays just make sure you have all
your booking info handy on your phone
that'll make the front desk people
pretty happy if it's a big hotel
they might have hundreds of people
checking in in the span of a few hours
the front desk staff are usually super
busy managing guests
deliveries events emergencies a random
peacock running through the lobby
and so forth just a nugget of advice
don't disturb them for every minor
question you might have
check out that booklet that's normally
hanging out on the bedside table
the answer is most likely in there enjoy
your stay